#summary General overview of Dev
#labels Featured

= Projects and Tasks =

Dev operates on two levels: project and task.  A project corresponds to a particular application or product under development, while a task represents some smaller unit of work on a project.  For example, say you are working on a patch to [http://www.swig.org SWIG] to add support for [http://www.erlang.org/ Erlang].  Then SWIG is the project, and the erlang patch is the task.  You may be working concurrently on other aspects of SWIG, and may also be working on other projects.

A project will usually have associated with it:
  * some scripts for compiling, running, testing, and so on; and
  * shell and text editor configuration specific to the project.

= Subcommands =

Dev provides a single executable with many subcommands, similar to `svn` or `cvs`.  The software ships with a number of useful subcommands, and it is easy to add new subcommands on a per-project basis.

= Loaders =

Dev's job is to organize and simplify your development work, and a big part of that job is to organize source code.  Dev ships with a number of [Loaders] for loading source code into a TaskDirectory from all sorts of places -- version control systems, tarballs, websites, etc.

= Configuration =

All of the work that Dev does is configurable, at the project, task type, and task levels, via environment variables.  All configuration files are shell scripts, so the full power of the shell is available to calculate values for configuration variables, if desired.

= Extensions =

By itself, Dev is just a framework (see DevFramework).  DevExtensions are what make it powerful.  Extensions can provide:
 * new subcommands
 * new [Loaders] (for loading source code into a TaskDirectory)
 * new utility functions (for use in subcommands)
 * new configuration variables

= Next Steps =

You may enjoy a GuidedTour of Dev, or reading about the DevArchitecture.  To see what Dev is capable of, see the list of DevExtensions, or skim the indices: VariableIndex, LoaderIndex, and SubcommandIndex.
